>> Evgenii Ray: And again,
it's exercise time.
We are going to build a simple exercise
where when you resize your rectangle,
it becomes the circle when the rectangle
size is less than 150 pixels.
So here now we have four nice circles and
if we re resize back,
it's again, rectangle.
And you need to check out the following
branch, 4-resize-observer-start.
And we are going to create
a resized observer and
track all this four elements and
fire the code back.
So let's get back to the code now.
>> Evgenii Ray: So I'm opening
the ResizeObserverBegin branch.
And here,
>> Evgenii Ray: We already have all
the boxes set up.
So I guess what we need to do is, so
first let's initiate the observer.
>> Evgenii Ray: And
then provide the callback.
>> Evgenii Ray: So
we're gonna loop through our entries.
>> Evgenii Ray: Then on an entry,
we're gonna access the target element.
>> Evgenii Ray: Then we need the box, so
we're gonna use borderBoxSize.
And we know that the borderBoxSize
is the array of a single element, so
we select the box.
And now we need to check
that the box.blockSize
is less than 150 pixels.
And the box.inlineSize
is also less than 150.
Then if it's less than 150,
we just need to update the target styles.
So we set the style and
we set borderRadius equals to 100%.
And then we also set target style.border.
And let's apply the 4
pixels border instead.
And if it's not the case then
we just reset the styles again.
So we can just copy this over, paste it.
And set the unset flag.
>> Evgenii Ray: So
now our observer is created.
Let's, query the book settlements,
boxes = document.querySelectorAll, and
then provide the class name of the box.
>> Evgenii Ray: And then for each box,
>> Evgenii Ray: We
just register the app server.
And if we run the browser now,
we should see that now it works.
So we have our four
rectangles that resize,
becomes a circle and rectangular again.
So the main idea of the resize
observer is very useful for
the application where you
have multiple windows.
So for instance, it can be trading app.
And the very common use case,
you have some charts on your training app.
And you need to update the toolbar,
how the toolbar looks like for each chart.
So you can set up one observer to
track all the charts on the page, and
then the toolbar will be
updated with a single observer.
And let's quickly overview the solution.
So we basically created the observer,
loop through the all entries,
and check if the size less than
150 on the target element.
We update the styles and
then unset them if it's not the case.
Then we create all the boxes and
register the observer.
>> Speaker 2: So
it changes once you hit that 150, but
as you keep moving it,
if you're staying under that 150,
is it still reapplying those
styles over and over again?
Basically is it-
>> Evgenii Ray: Yeah, so
the callback is fired.
So you still need to probably debounce
your callback to make sure that it's
not firing too often, but it will be much
more performant than your resize event.
>> Speaker 2: For sure.
>> Evgenii Ray: So
observer API is a very performant way for
implementing complex patterns.
So if you're in your application, you have
a legacy way how you implement such things
for instance, with intersection user type
is set to interval, or with resizer event.
You're trying to check the element size,
then it's better to
replace with Observer API.
Observer API already have 99,
98% support of the clients,
so for the rest 2% of the clients,
you still can do the polyfill that
will not be as performant, but
at least for 98% of the client,
you will deliver a good app experience.
>> Speaker 2: Do the inline size and
box size values change when text is being
written vertically, like in Japanese?
Or can you assume that inline
is always horizontal and
block is always-
>> Evgenii Ray: Yeah, this changes with
the settings LTR or RTL, and
if you render things from top to bottom,
but instead you can change
the perspective how you render things.
Then the inline size will
track the height instead and
the other property will track the width.
So you need to check the CSS
spec exactly when it happens.
>> Speaker 2: One more question, does
mutation observer with sub tree true for
poor performance if we
have 1,000 child nodes?
>> Evgenii Ray: So it might be
an issue on the low hardware, but
because the mutation observer is
actually implemented on a native level,
then the performance should be still good.
But it's always better to provide
the specific configuration what you track.
Make sure that you don't
track too many things.
If you want to track just the character
data across the whole tree, then
make sure you filter out the attributes
changes and the DOM node changes.
So this way you can
optimize the performance.
But of course, if you're trying
to track 10,000 elements then
even on a native level,
you may end up having the issues.
The way how you can optimize tracking,
for instance,
how the markdown editors do that.
So when you select specifically client, so
instead of tracking the full
document child tree,
you set up the observer dynamically on
this specific line selected by the user.
And when the user types,
you track only single line of data.
And that's how you can optimize
the mutation observer.